Algorithm for Exercise

Step 1: Create a class called ‘Card’ and define a function to create the characters and their 5 characteristics.

Step 2: Create the list of cards called ‘trumpcards’ which will have details of all 10 cards to be used in the game.

Step 3: Create there different decks: one for each player and the third as ‘outdatedDeck’ which will store all the used up card details.

Step 4: Shuffle cards randomly and divide them among the two players equally using the ‘random’ library. Step 5: Create a function called rollDice() which will assign a random generated numerical digit from 1 to 6 for each player. Players who gets the higher number will start the game. But if there is a tie as in both players get the same number, the dice would be rolled again to get a clear winner.

Step 6: As the code begins to execute players would be given an option to either begin the game or not, accepted answers would be ‘yes’ or ‘no’ and the response is stored in a variable called ‘startGame’. If players say ‘yes’ the game would begin with rolling the dice in order to decide who takes the first turn, which is denoted by the ‘playerTurn’ variable in the program. If the playerTurn variable is ‘True’ then player1 will start the game, else if the playerTurn variable is ‘False’ then player2 will start the game.

Step 7: Then created a while loop which will check if the count of cards in both players deck is greater than zero and the game will continue until and unless the number of cards in either or both players is greater than zero.

Step 8: Once the loop is started the first player is shown his first card in the list and given the option to choose any one of the characteristics that he would like to compare cards with. After the user inputs his response he will again be given an option to whether play the ‘godSpell’ or not. Depending on his response the game proceeds further, if the first player chooses ‘yes’ he will shown the number of cards in second players list and he will then be asked to give an input on which card he wants the second player to play and comparison is made and player who wins the hand will be awarded a point and the count of godSpell for first player would be updated as 1 and he won’t get the option to use godSpell again. If he chooses ‘no’ the game would proceed as normal without any addition to the godSpell count. Only the player who plays first in first round would get the option to play godSpell, second player does not get this option. Also resurrectSpell is not valid in first round for either of the players as there is no card in the outdatedDeck. 

Step 9: The second round will begin with the player who won the first round, if it’s the first player he will first get the option to use resurrectSpell as there are few cards in ‘outdatedDeck’ now, if he chooses ‘yes’ one of the cards in outdatedDeck will be randomly selected and placed in the first position of the player1Deck and resurrectSpellPlayer1 would be updated to 1 thus forbidding him from playing the spell again, and now player would be given the option to select one of the characteristics he wants to play with, if the player1 chooses ‘no’ game would proceed normally and the first card in his deck would be displayed and he would get the option to select one of the characteristics, after choosing it player1 would get the option of either playing the godSpell or not provided he had he not played it in the first round or else the game would proceed with giving player2 the option to use resurrectSpell and if he chooses ‘yes’ same procedure would follow as in case of player1 and the resurrectSpellPlayer2 would be updated to 1 thus forbidding the player from using this spell again. Characteristic of cards would be compared based on the option selected and a point would be added to the winners point count.

Step 10: Next round would again proceed with the winner of previous round and options to use godSpell or ResurrectSpell would be given based on their count as each player can use these spells only once. The points count is maintained for each round and a winner is decided once either or both players have zero cards in their individual decks. Game stops with displaying the final score and winner along with the count of cards in ‘outdatedDeck’.

